---
layout: post
title: Comparison of Ruby and C#
---

I completed two projects to compare the capabilities and usability of Ruby and C#. The first project I completed was the prime factors problem. The input of this problem is an integer number. The output is a list of the prime factors for that integer. To solve this, I used a simple algorithm which starts at 2 and finds the lowest prime number which input mod prime equals zero, and so on from there until all factors have been found. For this problem I found both C# and Ruby equally usable and capable. Though I have a bias towards C# as I am already fairly well acquainted with that language and just recently began to learn Ruby. Though now that I have become a little more accustomed to Ruby, I would say that for simple projects Ruby might be preferable as it is more straightforward.

My second project was the Mars Rover problem. This problem models a rover which must navigate a rectangular map when given a string of commands - l, r, f, b - for left, right, forward, and backward, respectively. Obstacles are placed around the map which when confronted with one, the rover will not move and will alert that an obstacle has been encountered. If the rover comes to the edge of the map, it will wrap back around to the other side. To accomplish this I created a 21x21 grid spanning from x,y coordinates -10,-10 to 10,10. I created a set of points to represent obstacles. Before each set of instructions is received by the user, a grid is printed with dashes as empty spaces, X's as obstacles, and @ as the location of the rover. The heading and location is also displayed at the beginning of each turn. I used the same concepts in both C# and Ruby. For this problem, I found Ruby much simpler. The weak typing and simple structure made this program quick to write. I was able to complete this problem in Ruby in less than half the time it took me to complete it in C# (adjusting for the time it took to solve the procedures and algorithms necessary).

Overall I found Ruby easy to use with decent capability. I would probably use this language when I'm wanting to solve a simple problem. I still however prefer C#'s structure, strong typing, and massive libraries over Ruby for large projects which would require many classes and dependencies.

My solutions to the problems can be found in my repository <a href="https://github.com/mdaugustine/SeniorDesign">here</a>